# BeeHealthClassifier
## Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) model to classify bees by health condition.
Bees  are  essential  for  the  stability  of  the  environ-ment,  as  they  enable  the  production  of  seeds  and  fruits.  One-third of all our food depends on the pollination process. Withoutpollinators,  food  production  would  be  insufficient  for  the  worldpopulation.  Unfortunately,  beehives  are  susceptible  to  severaldiseases,  some  very  contagious,  such  as  varroa  mite,  a  naturalpredator. Recognizing  the  first  signs  of  disease  in  the  hivesis  essential.  The  earlier  a  disease  is  detected,  the  less  likely  itis  that  a  hive  will  collapse.  The  traditional  way  of  obtaininginformation about the hives health is to review it directly insideit. However, this process hinders the workflow of bees. By analyzing  images  of  bees  coming  out  of  the  hive,  we  can  gain  a greater understanding of them. For example, a hive infected withvarroa mites will have bees with deformed wings or mites on theirbacks.  Deep  Learning  (DL),  in  particular  Convolutional  NeuralNetworks  (CNNs),  have  demonstrated  outstanding  performanceto  fields  such  as  computer  vision,  speech  recognition  amongothers,  where  they  have  produced  results  comparable  to  and  insome cases surpassing human expert performance. In this work, we propose building CNN-based solutions trained to classify bees by  their  health  condition  by  using  as  input  the  bee  image.
